Star Trek Voyager...
Last time on
NARRATOR:
going to take your son...
Chakotay, they're
the baby wasn't his.
when Culluh saw,
not for me, for your son.
Please, help us,
to stay out of here.
I told you
CULLUH:
No!
I have a duty to this crew.
I can't just leave and go
looking for the child.
And I'd never consider
letting you go
stronghold by yourself.
into a Kazon-Nistrim
Captain, if I can get a shuttle
through the cross fire
the Talaxians to help us.
I can go back and bring
We're being boarded through
the shuttle bays, Captain.
Stay where you are. Don't move.
MALE:
Hold your fire.
medical holograph recall.
Computer, activate
Set for 12 hours.
Mark.
A fitting end for a people
who would not share
their technology.
manage to survive
Let's see if you
without it.
the crew into teams.
We'll divide
be a team leader.
Each of you will
Make it clear to all your people
that we expect to be rescued.
And now the conclusion.
Let me help you.
CHAKOTAY:
I'm all right.
No, really,
Don't push yourself.
That goes for everyone.
Perspiring wastes water.
( rumbling )
All right, people, follow me.
JANEWAY:
Let's take it slow.
defensible location
This is the most
we've seen so far.
provide us with shelter
The overhang should
should keep insects away.
and the breeze
let's make camp.
All right,
Neelix, look at this.
They almost look constructed.
Maybe the people on this world
are cave dwellers.
If that's true,
a "do not disturb" sign.
I'd say this is
Wouldn't you?
They look humanoid.
We might be able to use these
as tools or weapons.
Gather them up,
Mr. Hogan.
Is there a problem?
No, sir.
Do you want all of them?
Waste nothing.
That's one of the first rules
of survival.
Neelix, over here.
FEMALE:
( distant thud )
( creature breathing heavily )
( Hogan screams )
NEELIX:
Hogan!
repeat stabilizer diagnostic.
Computer,
Damage has been detected
acceleration sensors.
in the stabilizer
the acceleration sensors.
I just repaired
Warning.
on intercept course.
Vessel approaching
Signature.
Kazon patrol vessel.
have time for this.
Damn it, I don't
I don't have time for this!
Computer, all stop.
Engage impulse.
I don't have time for this.
I told you,
of Hogan's uniform, Captain.
It's all that's left
CHAKOTAY:
We didn't find anything else.
This is my fault.
NEELIX:
to pick up those bones...
If I hadn't told Hogan
You shouldn't blame
yourself, Neelix.
Stop it. There's no time
to worry about blame.
JANEWAY:
Hogan was a fine officer
and a good man.
to make sure his death
And our job is
is the last one
for a long time.
I will not let this planet
destroy my crew.
that everyone knows
Kes, see to it
are off limits.
the tunnels
protocols established.
I want clear safety
we need weapons.
Mr. Tuvok,
I have already begun to design
some rudimentary devices,
Captain.
and water status?
What's our food
I know it sounds grisly
but I can make solar stills
with the material
from this uniform.
water tomorrow.
We could have
Do it.
none of the search teams
Captain,
of any nutritional value.
were able to find plants
Then tell the crew to start
turning over rocks.
If anyone balks at eating these,
tell them it's an order
from their captain.
They may be the difference
between life and death.
Activate emergency medical
holographic program.
of the medical emergency?
Please state the nature
Hello, doctor.
Remember me?
How could I forget
such an intriguing
medical mystery?
a Cardassian physiology.
A Bajoran crewman with
How are you, Seska?
( baby crying )
a new passenger.
I see we have
Doctor, I have to inform you
about a change of command.
I'm curious how you'll react.
have taken voyager.
The Kazon-Nistrim
How interesting.
Does your program have
any problem with that?
much the same as another
One humanoid is pretty
from a holographic
point of view.
to provide medical care
I'm programmed
to anyone who needs it.
Tell me, is it within your
program's capabilities
to lie or be deceptive?
I've learned that
a bedside manner
requires me to--
occasionally
how shall I put it--
soft-pedal the truth.
But bald-faced lying,
calculated deceit--
I don't have much experience
with that sort of thing.
But my program is adaptive.
If you really need me
to be deceptive
I'm sure I could learn.
It's not exactly
what I meant.
I think we'll keep you
just as you are.
As you wish.
Your baby's in good health.
You don't know how primitive
Kazon medicine is.
I'm sure Chakotay would be glad
looking after his son.
to know you're
Chakotay's son?
That isn't Chakotay's son.
But you're wrong, doctor.
I impregnated myself
with his DNA.
That may have been
your intention...
wasn't the result.
but it certainly
Here.
See for yourself.
Cardassian DNA strands here
Your child has
and Kazon DNA here.
a significantly different
Human DNA has
nucleotide sequence.
( crying )
But I was so certain.
He looks...
He's the first offspring
of a Cardassian
and a Kazon.
We have no frame
of reference
his initial appearance.
by which to judge
Perhaps he will develop
more Kazon features
as he matures.
will be so pleased.
Maje Culluh
holographic program.
End medical
Medical log, stardate 50032.7.
that Commander Chakotay
I have determined
is not the father
of Seska's child.
some way to inform him.
I only wish there was
What am I supposed to do--
the gang from Sandrine's?
lead a revolt with
of Nathan Hale and Che Guevara?
Conjure up holograms
not a counterinsurgent.
I'm a doctor,
Get a hold of yourself.
You're not just a hologram.
You're a Starfleet hologram.
Maybe...
a tactical database--
Maybe I could access
teach myself guerilla warfare.
But that would take time.
the crew complement?
Computer, what is
There are 89 Kazon...
89...
and one Betazoid on board.
What did you say? Betazoid?
There is one Betazoid on board.
Where? Who?
a single question.
Please restate
Who is it?
Crewman Lon Suder.
Suder?
Where is he?
Between decks eight and nine.
Doctor to Suder.
Yes.
Yes, doctor, I hear you.
The ship has been taken over
by the Kazon-Nistrim.
I know.
I've been hiding.
Can you make it to sick bay?
I think so.
medical priority, 1-1-4.
Computer, emergency
of Mr. Suder's combadge
Delete the signature
from the system. There is to be
no record of his being on board.
Huddle together in groups.
JANEWAY:
That'll preserve body heat.
This is no time to be shy.
Tuvok...
Captain, how do you
like your eggs?
KIM:
about two kilometers away.
We found a nest
TORRES:
And that's not all--
or something like them.
Cucumbers,
There are vines full of them
two hours from here.
Take them to Neelix,
and tell him to hold off
on the beetle stew,
at least for the time being.
How's she doing, Samantha?
She seems tired, listless.
I don't know, Captain.
Maybe she's just adjusting
to the environment.
JANEWAY:
she was born in space.
After all,
stay close to the fire...
Make sure you
as soon as we have one.
( scraping )
Trapped on a barren planet,
only Indian in the universe
and you're stuck with the
rubbing two sticks together.
who can't start a fire by
I was never good at this as a
child and I'm still not.
Don't be so hard on yourself,
none of the others have had
any success with it either.
It must be the wood.
We need kindling of some sort.
What?
Something my father once told me
about starting a fire.
There you go.
If we put some bigger
rocks around the fire
they'll reflect
the heat better.
I'm going to go get some.
Neelix!
too far away from camp!
You shouldn't go
Voyager's been taken by
the Kazon-Nistrim.
They're flooding every subspace
frequency with the news.
Is there any word on the crew?
I'm afraid not.
If you can help me with repairs
we can be on our way
in a few hours.
are no match for Voyager,
Lieutenant... our ships
and your shuttlecraft
can hardly--
my people are counting on you.
Commander Paxim,
Look, no one knows Voyager
like I do .
I know every vulnerability,
every blind spot.
Don't worry. I have a plan.
( sighs )
Very well.
We'll rendezvous in an hour.
Paxim out.
One hour.
I should be able to come up with
some kind of plan in one hour.
I was beginning to think
you'd gotten lost.
I'm sorry.
repairing the ship.
They're still
I had to be careful.
We have no time to waste.
According to the computer,
we're at warp.
We've got to slow down before we
get too far from the crew.
That would seem to be
our first priority.
to get some weapons...
And then we have
are you listening to me?
Mr. Suder,
Yes.
Oh.
I see.
Perhaps you consider this...
an opportunity.
Opportunity?
your freedom from confinement.
To obtain
How foolish of me to think
you would want to help.
You're wrong.
I do want to help.
Then... what?
to kill some of them.
I'm going to have
It is possible.
Violence might be required
to retake the ship.
I've worked so...
the last few months...
so hard over
to control the violent feelings.
I'm almost at peace with myself.
I mean, I see the day coming
when I could be.
Mr. Suder...
if Lieutenant Tuvok were here
I know he would tell you
there are times
when violence is required
to defend yourself,
to defend your ship,
to defend your crew.
Yes.
for violence for everyone else.
There is a logical use
With me,
once it begins...
together, Mr. Suder.
we must do this
yourself yet, then trust me.
If you don't trust
I will help you
any way I can.
and one sociopath
One hologram
of a match for the Kazon,
may not be much
but we'll have to do.
There are signs of a struggle
near the edge of camp.
I found alien tracks.
morning to go after them.
We can't wait until
Well I'm better at tracking
than starting fires.
I've completed a few weapons
that might be appropriate,
Commander.
This is thoughtful
of you, Tuvok.
used bows and arrows
But my tribe never
and I've never even shot one.
This is mine.
I taught archery science
for several years
at the Vulcan Institute
of Defensive Arts.
members as you need.
Take as many crew
( grunting )
Tus.
Filhin hissen.
Now, see here.
your hands off her.
You just keep
Toru hin!
Dart hin cahi filhir.
Tirk hir pahin!
( screams )
Shod!
Kuwissu hir. Shod!
thank goodness.
Commander,
Are you all right?
They haven't
hurt us.
KES:
Have you been able to tell if
they have a leader?
I'd say it's the one
with the claw.
I agree. The other two seem
NEELIX:
to be trying to figure out
what to make of us.
in the culinary sense, I hope.
In a manner of speaking, not
Listen to the sound
of my voice
and you'll know that
I mean you no harm.
I come without weapons.
But I must have
my people back.
Kuwissu hir!
Shod!
Toru hin!
Lam!
Tolun...
kusettun hatru.
Thank you...
but she should
stay with you.
I must take them with me.
Kuman khahun hin!
Dert hissen sahk!
I'll be happy to stand.
Stand? Certainly,
Over here. Fine.
Chim kan issen sahk.
What?
No. No!
That is unacceptable.
Kes, stand up slowly,
and walk away with us.
We have to go now.
Kukhahun hin.
Just keep walking.
Don't look back.
Kha hin!
In there.
like the tunnel where Hogan...
Commander, that looks just
If they know it, too,
I know.
they won't follow us in.
Come on.
You'd think this crew had never
seen a warp drive before.
the antimatter flow today?
No one tried to adjust
No one.
I'll have your head.
If you're lying,
I swear it, Maje.
There should have
been some warning
before the antimatter
injector froze--
a magnetic constriction alarm,
a drop in core temperature,
something.
He's either lying or...
Or what?
Computer, run a level one
scan for intruders.
Unable to comply.
Internal scanner relays
have been damaged.
I thought you said all
repairs were complete.
I thought they were.
They were.
deck-by-deck search
I want a
of all Jeffries tubes
and conduits.
Use the Federation tricorders.
Do you have a portable
thoron generator?
Yes, of course.
We use it to treat
radiation burns.
It's an old Maquis trick.
Thoron particles neutralize
tricorder sensors.
we need some weapons
Mr. Suder,
to retake the ship.
if we're going
( crying )
She has a fever.
I don't know what to do.
Let me get her
some water.
( rumbling )
The baby needs water.
to be getting stronger.
Those tremors seem
Chakotay's team should
have been back by now.
We better look for them
before it gets too hot.
Get a few people together.
I'll join you in a second.
( all shouting )
there's another way out of here.
Come on. We have to see if
( rumbling )
I feel a breeze.
KES:
from this way.
It's coming
( chanting )
Do you really think
Commander Chakotay
would go in there after
what happened to Hogan?
no other choice.
He may have had
away from the tunnels?
How do we get them
A couple of phaser blasts
would do the trick.
Who are the fastest
runners here?
the decathlon team
TORRES:
I was on
before I quit the academy.
The track and field coach
was furious with me.
Yeah.
Anyone else here who can run?
Okay, you three will
be the sprint team.
Once you reach our camp,
you should be safe.
do you like, Tuvok?
Which way
From a tactical
point of view
not encouraging.
the options are
past the creature
However, moving
might lead us
to an exit.
let's take it slow.
All right,
Single file.
Hey, up here!
TORRES:
You want us?
Up here!
Come and get us.
You want us?
Come on, come and get us.
( shouting )
Pull this.
( creature breathing )
( grunts )
( creature grunts )
( yelling )
( creature growling distantly )
JANEWAY:
Chakotay!
Tuvok!
The tunnel's clear.
KIM:
Go!
Everybody out!
Move! Let's go!
Go! Go! Go!
Go!
Chakotay, your spear.
Come on. Come on, go!
CHAKOTAY:
Come on.
I don't understand it.
Thoron particles are leaking
into the conduits
from somewhere.
any other readings.
I can't get
Check the next level.
Yes, sir.
Incoming subspace message
COMPUTER:
on the emergency medical
holographic channel.
On the emergency channel?
Doc, I hope you're
receiving this,
because if you're not,
I'm a dead duck.
I'm piggy-backing this message
on a fake Kazon signal
I'm sending to the bridge.
they won't be monitoring
I'm betting
your emergency medical channel.
I'm bringing help.
to do something for us.
But you have
When the attack begins
I need you to get the computer
to block the discharge
phaser power couplings.
from the backup
You got that?
The backup couplings.
the primary couplings myself.
I'm taking out
But I need those backups
to overload
when they switch to them.
until the attack begins,
Don't do anything
or they might notice.
That's it for now.
I'll be seeing you soon.
I hope.
( thud )
Help is on the way.
Good news.
Mr. Paris apparently
was able to...
Oh.
I didn't know
what to do.
should leave him there
I didn't think I
where they could find him.
Of course, you were smart
to bring him here.
in a stasis drawer.
We can put him
Well, we have weapons now.
necessary, Mr. Suder.
You did what was
Five cc's of improvoline
will help you calm down.
No. No drugs.
SUDER:
I just need to breathe--
see the white light
that is my breath.
We just received
a message
from our patrol ship.
the shuttle from Voyager...
They've tracked down
and destroyed it.
Were two people on board?
They didn't say.
Two people were unaccounted for
when we captured the crew.
Have they found any evidence
of an intruder on board?
No.
down by a thoron particle leak.
But the search has been slowed
Thoron particles?
That's an old Maquis trick
to fool tricorders.
After what transpired,
I believe we have to
TUVOK:
an alien attack, Captain.
prepare ourselves for
increase the weapons arsenal
Our priority should be to
and to begin training everyone
in the use of these weapons.
I don't like the sound of that,
Lieutenant.
with these aliens a long time.
We may have to coexist
Nevertheless...
I agree with the Captain.
CHAKOTAY:
to share this world with them.
We have to find a way
in a savage, Commander,
You may find nobility
but he is only interested
in killing you.
I don't believe that.
Captain!
KES:
She's having trouble breathing.
The baby is very sick.
nothing more I can do for her.
She has a high fever. There's
( rumbling )
Captain!
I think our top priority
has just been dictated.
Break camp. We've got to get out
of here before it blows.
Why are you still here?
program when I left.
I shut down your
You must be mistaken.
thoron generator?
Where's your
It was damaged on a recent away
mission and left behind.
Who else from Voyager
is on board ?
I don't believe you.
I wouldn't know.
crewman on board actually,
There are several dozen
working around the clock
and they have been
to sabotage your vessel.
That's a lie.
At most, there is one,
it is a Maquis crewman.
and I believe
Yes, of course.
You're right.
It is one of the Maquis.
I won't play these games
with a trick of light.
won't break my bones,
Sticks and stones
so you can imagine
how I feel
about being called names.
have sabotaged this ship alone.
I don't believe you could
Very well.
Since you are obviously
my program anyway,
about to disable
the credit I deserve.
let me take
I did sabotage the ship
all by myself
with the computer's
help, of course.
As a matter of fact, one of your
crewman came in unexpectedly
and caught me in the act.
You killed him?
He left me no choice.
if you're not hiding someone?
Why create a thoron leak
I would think it's obvious,
I was hiding someone.
to make you believe
I've had your people
crawling through the bowels
of this ship for hours
looking for an intruder.
in the art of deception
You're more talented
than you led me to believe.
by the presence of a master.
I was inspired
Access Culluh zero-one.
Computer,
Disregard all
voice commands
from Starfleet
personnel.
Security lock-out.
( rumbling )
Seska to Bridge.
What's going on?
A couple of Talaxian ships
have fired on us.
MALE:
Nothing to worry about.
Good-bye, doctor.
I'd rather not take
any more chances.
( rumbling )
Doctor?
medical holographic program.
Activate emergency
Unable to respond.
All Starfleet voice access
has been canceled.
if you are hearing this,
DOCTOR:
Mr. Suder,
unsuccessfully attempted
you have just
to access the emergency
medical program.
this message to play
I have programmed
that I have been disabled.
in the event
that the fate of Voyager
This means, of course,
now depends solely on you.
must feel at this moment.
I can imagine how you
you have my full confidence.
I want you to know
You have already shown
great courage and dedication to
your crew.
additional message for
I have left an
and Lieutenant Tuvok
Captain Janeway
in case I am irretrievable.
noting your heroism,
You know what you have to do
and when to do it.
And I know that with our fate
in your hands
we will prevail.
Good luck, Mr. Suder.
The Talaxians are retreating
toward the nebula.
We'll teach them the price
for attacking the Nistrim.
a pursuit course.
Lay in
Commander Paxim to Paris.
Go ahead.
They're following us
as planned.
We're bringing them to you.
Acknowledged. Ready and waiting.
I just hope you are, too, doc.
This way.
JANEWAY:
( screams )
It's okay.
Here we go.
What's happening?!
Our phaser power couplings
are under attack.
I don't see anyone.
From where?
I'm not picking up anything
on the scanners.
Shields are buckling.
Take evasive action.
( groans )
I have it on the scanners.
It's a Federation shuttlecraft.
Lock phasers.
Destroy it.
Primary phaser
power is down.
Switch to backup systems.
Confirmed.
Phasers are locked on.
Fire!
I don't understand.
I'm showing an overload.
Yes, doc, yes.
PARIS:
Paris to Commander Paxim.
Stand by.
I'm going to start transporting
your people to Voyager.
Standing by.
( baby crying )
Seska!
Seska...
Engineering to Maje Culluh.
We're being boarded.
Abandon ship.
( baby crying )
the Bridge manually.
I'm sealing off
the computer back on-line.
I've got to get
All Starfleet voice access
has been disabled.
I'm reading a Kazon shuttle
leaving the ship.
There are also escape pods
being launched.
Forget them.
We have more important
things to do.
better, isn't she?
She's breathing
Sad katonk.
Welcome back, Captain.
PARIS:
Well done, Lieutenant.
I had a lot of help.
the doc, Mr. Suder.
The Talaxians,
Suder?
KIM:
during the initial attack.
We thought he was killed
No. He and the doctor
sabotaged the ship.
Suder disabled the phasers
before they killed him.
proud of him, Mr. Tuvok.
You would have been
a Vulcan prayer, Mr. Suder.
I offer you
bring you the peace
May your death
you never found in life.
Mr. Kim, is this ship capable
of sustained flight?
All propulsion and navigational
systems are functioning
within normal parameters,
Captain.
Good. Take us away
from our new home,
for the old one, Mr. Paris.
and set a course
Warp eight.
Heading 4-1 mark 7-7.
Destination:
Alpha quadrant.
Engage.